Hi! my name is Malath. I am an Iraqi creative technologist and artist based in NYC with an interest in creating dynamic safe spaces in the physical and digital realms. My work themes range from surveillance technology critique in relation to each individual person and their experience, safe tools for women and the LGBTQ+ community to avoid cyber stalking, and overall interactive and fun mini-projects that explore dreams such as dream predictors or dream worlds. My design process always begins with preliminary sketches that I use to critique the concept in an ethical lense, questions such as “why am I making this?”, “who am I making this for”, “how will this serve into a larger network”, and lastly “who could this project harm?” are how I conclude if a project is ethically sound. Then, I begin to develop these ideas further by expecting my own perspective and into the user’s perspective to make certain that if I were to be receiving the message as a person who has little to no context given, It would still come across smoothly and effectively. Generally my work concentrates on ideas of freedom, liberation, and joy to do anything in life in contrast to paranoia and the unsettling feeling of being watched by an unknown entity, although my general purpose in my work is to provide feelings of safety and protection to people who are unable to find a physical space to protect themselves. As for aesthetics, my work tends to follow two contrasts, light colors such as green, purple, pink and orange with an opalescence sheen and joyful interactions. I am very inspired by bauhaus shapes and iconology as well as organic movement and free-flowing objects in space. In contrary to my surveillance work that is dark and very animated with little to no decorative aspects to emulate the feelings of paranoia and the unknown of our internet. Above all, I greatly value ideas of ethical, non-exploitive production in the tech world and creating systems that will help people in our communities that are underlooked by bigger tech and have been failed in the judicial system as well as providing a deeper understanding and critical lens when looking at aspects of the current system we live in through work that is interactive, resourceful and self-aware to actualize a medium of play, critical thinking, and to end off with a place to go next and resources to visit if the message resonates. Long term, I think I would like to venture into projects into the physical world using physical computing to create safe furniture (that follows organic curves and limited edges) to help those with anxiety and depression feel safe in their own home as well, the same design process will be put to use and the input of people who struggle with mental illness will be the major decider on what gets created.